All right.
Welcome back.
We have our Hello World app but that doesn't look very cool.
We want to make our robo friends app.
So in this video we're going to get started by building our first component if we go back here.
We remember that we have the terminal on the right hand side.
And we just ran NPM start and create exact outs checks all the files for us make sure there's no errors.
It says that our app is defined but never used so let's comment this out again comment slash say this
and you'll see that everything's working fine.
Now you may have a few questions just on this index.
Jay Yes.
One we see that we're importing react but how come that's working.
We remember that it didn't work before we had to use require and then browser fi again re-act has a
wet pack underneath the hood that does the bundling for us.
So we're allowed to use imports as long as we keep this at the top of the file.
We can import whatever other files we want or whatever packages we want.
We also see that there's two things react and react.
Dom if you remember re-act is a view library.
So this is the little robot that we remember from the previous video.
It's the core of the package that does the DOM manipulation for us.
But as I said before Riak can be used in multiple places not just the browser.
It can be used for mobile devices.
It can be used for virtual reality and you can plug and play different libraries like this based on
what screen you're rendering to.
So react arm is used for the dumb Web sites.
So the glue of react.
But we can have something like re-act native.
That actually renders two mobile phones.
We also have import and export CSSA.
And this is a new syntax will react to allows us to add CSSA not just in one file but for each different
component.
If we go to APT.
Yes well we have dot CSSA that describes the app.
If we go to index yes.
While we have indexed starts SS that has its own cells and these cells will only apply to whatever components
index suggests renderers.
And the way we use it is we just say import and then unlike Riak package where we just say the name
of the package and it automatically knows to check the known modules folder we have to tell it where
index Dotsie SS lives.
And this syntax of Daut slash means it's in the same directory.
So it's saying check on the source folder and ex-Nazi SS should be there OK.
And finally we see register service worker.
And this is an advanced topic that we won't cover in this course but think of service workers as a new
feature that allows our apps to become faster and potentially work offline.
It's something that we don't need to concern ourselves with.
So for now you can combine this out and it will still work but we'll keep it here just because create
re-act up gives it to us for free the things that we really really care about though is while this line
over here this whole thing is what re-act does it saying I want the react package to use the function
render and this render is I wanted to render whatever this is but if you remember before we had app
and well this isn't really an a shemale tag is it.
We've just created this from it looks like the same directory.
There's something called app and it doesn't have a dog geus file like we see it over here and that is
because it automatically says that if there's no dot CSX or any type after it.
Well it assumes that it's javascript but this will work as well as you can see because the last go to
app dodgiest file and see why we can use this issue and Alt-Tab that we've created if we go to opt out
Jeff's file Well again we see that we're importing something we're doing something called destructuring
here and getting component as well.
And we have a few files like Logo SVGA and abduct CSSA that we're importing.
And again we see that our syntax is a little bit.
So make sure that we change our files to javascript table and it looks like CLOS app extends component
that comes with react.
And this is just standard syntax.
This renders member a component always has the role that it must to render at least something.
And the way we do that is we return a a Chanel piece of the Web site.
So we see over here welcome to react to get started at Ed.
Well that's exactly what it says over here.
That is the power of react.
We're creating our own custom components our own cost him a shemale tags that we can just add and be
free.
Remember the one way data flow picture we have one parent that has children.
So app has children but you know what let's build our own component to make this point clear.
Instead of having hello world in here let's create a component called hello and it's a self-closing
tax so you want to have the backslash.
And and here instead of saying import app let's do import Hello from.
We'll call it hello.
Yes.
And you'll notice that it's capitalized here.
Well if you're building a component the standard is that it's capitalized.
So it'll be called Hello dodgy Yes if we save this we'll get an error says module not found can't resolve.
Hello.
Because the file doesn't exist.
So let's create one.
I'm going to say new file Hello dodge Yes there you go.
We have a new hello digest file and it's compiled successfully.
If we go to the Web site well look at that.
It actually even gives us air on the Web site and that's why create react is just so awesome.
It shows you exactly what the errors are without opening up the console right here.
Again we have nothing built right now in Halo So we need to create it.
Let's use the app that J.S. as an example.
It looks like we need to import re-act and component so we need say and poor re-act component from Riyadh.
Okay.
And the reason we're doing this again this is destructuring instead of doing re-act dot component we
can now just do component and it means the same thing.
Again looking at dodgiest it looks like we say class.
Our computer name extends component to that class.
We'll call this hello again.
That's what our components called extends component.
And again remember to change our javascript to Paypal and if you remember one rule is that we always
want to have a render function and within this render function we tell it what we want to return.
Well we want to return the hello world example but we can say H-1
Hello world.
Okay let's see what happens when I do this I save.
And it says export default importer's Hello was not found.
Well it's because we're not exporting this.
Remember if we want another file to use it we have to export and we use export default when we're just
exporting one thing.
If we use the word default that means this file only exports one thing and that is the app.
So I can say export default.
Hello.
Let's save.
Looks like it's working.
Let's see what happens in our upside.
Hello world.
We've just created our very first component How cool is that now.
Right now we only have one line.
But what if I wanted to do something like Divx wrapping it in a div and maybe underneath here all say
a paragraph that says walk to react.
If I save this I get another error
and it's because we're just giving him multiple lines here and returns expecting a single thing.
We need to wrap this in brackets.
Like this in order to have javascript say this is an expression.
Evaluate this entire thing.
If we save this looks like it's working and then hello world welcome to react.
Very cool.
Within here if you remember if we import Daut Hello Dad CSA us we can create whatever CSSA styles we
want but we need to create that file for Salles to new file.
And I need to outturn Owen here.
The new file name will be hello.
C Ss now.
Hello CSSA I can just say that the H-1.
And this is just standard C Ss will have background of red.
I'm going to save save.
This is Rawle.
Everything looks good.
And look at that.
But you know what to make this faster and because we've gone over CSSA I want to show you a cool package
called Tatiana's and tak Kyon's allows us to have similar to bootstrap predefined class names that we
can just add to components to make things look really really nice.
So let's do that.
I'm going to close this and say am pm install Tatiana's.
All right.
It's additive package we can check by going to package on.
We see that Tatiana's are there and we can use Tatiana's very easily but just going to index not just
file and saying import catkins.
And now we have access to this package just to show you attack.
Odds are if I go to tack Kyon's styles
that gives us law classes that we can use that for example text Center we'll just say TC and as long
as we have tack on we use TCAS class name will align are text.
So now that we have Kyon's and it's indexed not just fall we can just say within here
equals F 1 for Fonte want and tech center I save.
I have to do.
NPM start here.
Make sure that her server is running so that we can check our changes.
And we get hello world Volcom to react.
But there's actually one trick here.
If you open up the console although this worked I get a warning saying invalid Dom property class.
Did you mean class name and reacts.
Really really good at giving you errors and you might be asking yourself why a class name instead of
class.
Because if I save this go back I no longer have that air.
Why is that.
Well up until this point we've kind of just been a.
But this is a javascript file.
How are we able to do this.
This is actually something called GSX.
Part of the act is that it allows you to write this email like syntax in your javascript and you might
be asking yourself one doesn't that break the rule of separation of concerns and to how are we even
able to add a symbol to javascript to answer the first question separation of concerns react has the
idea of components and that is it's better to have functionality and styles per component so that each
component is its own separate universe.
And you just add these components.
And the idea of separation of concerns with react is that components Well they're concerned about themselves
nothing else.
So it changes the paradigm here and it's kind of nice right.
I can just look at the halo component.
I know exactly what it's doing.
I can look at the CSSA.
And any time I need to make a change I just need to worry about the files that contain the hello CSSA
and Javascript.
The second thing is this disk thing called GSX underneath the hood.
What reactor's doing is actually letting me use this syntax but they're not actual a simple tax.
Remember what I said about the virtual Dom and how re-act creates its own object and then looks at the
DOM and compares it and says Hmm I need to change this and it does it for us.
Re-act uses GSX to create their virtual Dom their fake Dom that they built based on what we give it
to them.
Then they look at this virtual Dom and the real Dom and say this part has changed.
I'm going to change the Domhnall based on the virtual Dom and that is why I react as really really fast.
It creates objects which is really fast and Javascript and only changes what needs to be done in the
door.
So just get used to it.
It's awkward at first but again as long as you wrap it in a bracket you can write here a shemale as
well as your own custom components such as Halo that we used in index not just for
and now maybe it makes sense why we can't say class here because class is a reserved keyword in javascript.
Class is part of the language that javascript uses.
So if this is javascript the fact that we're same class here doesn't make sense in the old version of
react.
This actually broke react but now gives us a nice error because this is javascript and not a shemale.
We have to say class name and it's something that you'll get used to.
You'll get tricked up with at the beginning but it becomes easy after a while.
The last thing I'm going to show you is the part of react within the halo component.
I can now add something called props or properties.
And these props can be called anything.
Think of them as a shim all attributes.
I can say greeting.
He calls them within here.
I want to wrap it in curly brackets and this is a javascript expression whatever I want I can say hello
re-act ninja and if I save this I get an error saying that no useless concatenation.
So it's saying that hey why are you even adding things he can just put them all together.
So it's hard enough to even give you suggestions or warnings of when you're doing something that's not
clean.
But for now for demonstration purposes this is fine.
Now that I've given it what we call a greeting Propp to hello I now have access and hello.
Yes to prop's I can now say
this dot prop's dot greeting I save this go back and I say hello re-act Ninja.
You see with this syntax it's saying that this object which is Halo has properties props that is greeting.
I know this is confusing is just the syntax you have to get used to but now we have access to whatever
property and whatever property value we get from.
Hello this is a power that will come in handy later on.
But I want you to build your own component here and get comfortable with the Sendak's.
It is really really powerful and once you get used to it you can build any components you want.
OK.
One final thing.
This index might be kind of difficult but I want to show you that this is actually just a function.
If I do Konst hello and in here this function accepts props if I do an error function here.
Wrap it in curly brackets.
And instead of doing this render I just simply return
if I saved this well I'm getting an error because this stub props out greetings doesn't really exist
because it's not an object anymore.
It is a function.
So I don't need the props.
It receives props whatever parameters we give it and props that greeting is acceptable to us.
I save this go back and look at that.
It's working.
It's just functions.
Think of reactors that we're just creating these functions that take parameters and these parameters
which are given by giving attributes and values are just being rendered.
I have access to proper greeting if I give it another prop here called let's say a dog then I'll have
props start dog available to me as well.
And again we had a nice little error saying that component we're grabbing this but we're not really
using it and we're using unnecessary string concatenation.
Again really useful as you can see fairly simple to pick up in the next lesson.
We're going to start actually working on our robo friends app now that we have the basics.
I've seen that one by.